V14: External login providers (#6131)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: 14/umbraco-cms/reference/security/external-login-providers.md

            }
        };

    }
}
```
{% endcode %}

Next, you need to register the button in the BackOffice. This is done by adding a manifest file to the `App_Plugins` folder.

{% code title="App_Plugins/ExternalLoginProviders/umbraco-package.json" lineNumbers="true" %}
```json
{
  "$schema": "../../umbraco-package-schema.json",
  "name": "My Auth Package",
  "allowPublicAccess": true,
  "extensions": [
    {
      "type": "authProvider",
      "alias": "My.AuthProvider.Generic",
      "name": "My Auth Provider",
      "forProviderName": "Umbraco.Generic",
      "meta": {
        "label": "Generic",
        "defaultView": {
          "icon": "icon-cloud"
        },
        "behavior": {
          "autoRedirect": false
        },
        "linking": {
          "allowManualLinking": true
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% endcode %}
```

You have a few options to configure the button:

> * `element` - Define your own custom element for the button. This is useful if you want to display something other than a button, For example: a link or an image. For more information, see the [Customizing the BackOffice login button](external-login-providers.md#customizing-the-backoffice-login-button) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `element` - Define your own custom element for the button. This is useful if you want to display something other than a button, For example: a link or an image. For more information, see the [Customizing the BackOffice Login Button](external-login-providers.md#customizing-the-backoffice-login-button) section.
```

> * `element` - Define your own custom element for the button. This is useful if you want to display something other than a button, e.g. a link or an image. See the [Customizing the BackOffice login button](external-login-providers.md#customizing-the-backoffice-login-button) section for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `element` - Define your own custom element for the button. This is useful if you want to display something other than a button, For example: a link or an image. For more information, see the [Customizing the BackOffice login button](external-login-providers.md#customizing-the-backoffice-login-button) section.
```

* `forProviderName` - The name of the provider you are configuring. This should match the `SchemeName` in the `GenericBackOfficeExternalLoginProviderOptions` class with "Umbraco." prepended.

> * `meta.label` - The label to display on the button. This is what the user will see, e.g. "Sign in with Generic".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `meta.label` - The label to display on the button. The user will see this text. For example: "Sign in with Generic".
```

* `meta.defaultView.icon` - The icon to display on the button. You can use any of the icons from the Umbraco Icon Picker. If you want to use a custom icon, you need to first register it to the [`icons` extension point](../../extending/backoffice-setup/extension-types/README.md).
* `meta.defaultView.color` - (Default: "secondary") The color of the button. You can use any of the colors from the [Umbraco UI Library](https://uui.umbraco.com/?path=/story/uui-button--looks-and-colors).
* `meta.defaultView.look` - (Default: "default") The look of the button. You can use any of the looks from the [Umbraco UI Library](https://uui.umbraco.com/?path=/story/uui-button--looks-and-colors).
* `meta.behavior.autoRedirect` - Automatically redirects the user to the external login provider, skipping the Umbraco login page, unless the user has specifically logged out or timed out.
* `meta.behavior.popupTarget` - (Default: "umbracoAuthPopup") The target for the popup window. This is the name of the window that will be opened when the user clicks the button. If you want to open the login page in a new tab, you can set this to "_blank".

> * `meta.behavior.popupFeatures` - (Default: "width=600,height=600,menubar=no,location=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes,status=no,toolbar=no") The features of the popup window. This is a string of comma-separated key-value pairs, e.g. "width=600,height=600". You can read more on the [MDN Web Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/open#features).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `meta.behavior.popupFeatures` - (Default: "width=600,height=600,menubar=no,location=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes,status=no,toolbar=no") The features of the popup window. This is a string of comma-separated key-value pairs. For example: "width=600,height=600". You can read more on the [MDN Web Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/open#features).
```

> * `meta.linking.allowManualLinking` - Allows the user to link/unlink their account from the BackOffice. You need to allow manual linking on the `ExternalSignInAutoLinkOptions` as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `meta.linking.allowManualLinking` - Allows the user to link orunlink their account from the BackOffice. You need to allow manual linking on the `ExternalSignInAutoLinkOptions` as well.
```

> The button will now be displayed on the login page in the Umbraco backoffice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The button will now be displayed on the login page in the Umbraco Backoffice.
```

{% endtabs %}

For a more in-depth article on how to set up OAuth providers in .NET refer to the [Microsoft Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/security/authentication/social/?view=aspnetcore-8.0\&tabs=visual-studio).

> ### Customizing the BackOffice login button

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Customizing the BackOffice Login Button
```

> If you want to customize the login button, you can do so by adding a custom element to the manifest file. This is useful if you want to display something other than a button, e.g. a link or an image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to customize the login button, you can do so by adding a custom element to the manifest file. This is useful if you want to display something other than a button. For example, a link or an image.
```

The path to the custom view is a virtual path, like this example: `"~/App_Plugins/MyPlugin/BackOffice/my-external-login.js"`.

> When a custom view is specified it is 100% up to this module to perform all required logic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a custom view is specified, it is 100% up to this module to perform all the required logic.
```

> The module should define a Custom Element and export it as default. The Custom Element can optionally declare a number of properties to be passed to it. These properties are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The module should define a Custom Element and export it as default. Optionally, the Custom Element can declare a number of properties to be passed to it. These properties are:
```

  onSubmit = () => {};
  userLoginState = '';

  constructor() {
    super();
    this.attachShadow({ mode: 'open' });
    this.shadowRoot.appendChild(template.content.cloneNode(true));

    this.shadowRoot.getElementById('button').addEventListener('click', () => {
      this.onSubmit(this.manifest.forProviderName);
    });
  }
}

customElements.define('my-custom-view', MyCustomView);
```
{% endcode %}
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Lit (JavaScript)" %}
It is also possible to use a library like [Lit](https://lit.dev/) to render the custom element. The following example shows how to use Lit to render the custom element. The custom element will render a form with a button. The button will submit the form to the `externalLoginUrl` property. We do not have to perform any logic in the `constructor` method because Lit will automatically update any event listeners. Styling is also handled by Lit in the `static styles` property.

We are using Lit version 3 in this example imported directly from a JavaScript delivery network to keep the example slim. You can also use a bundler like [Vite](https://vitejs.dev) to bundle the Lit library with your custom element.

{% hint style="info" %}

> Check out the tutorial [Creating your first extension](../../tutorials/creating-your-first-extension.md) to learn more about how to set up a project with Vite.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about how to set up a project with Vite, see the [Creating your first extension](../../tutorials/creating-your-first-extension.md) tutorial.
```
